# Alex-Friendsim
Alex Halsey
Prof. Van Dore
GAME 395
2 February 2024
Game Report: Firewatch
For this game report, I will be analyzing and discussing the content and storyline within the game: Firewatch. Firewatch is an adventure game developed by Campo Santo. It was released in February 2016. In the game, you play as a predefined character named Henry from a first-person point of view. The game opens up with a text-based dialogue introducing the first setting as Boulder, Colorado in the year 1975 where Henry talks to Julia, a professor from their town college, who a week later will be his girlfriend. Here, you’re tasked with making choices during your conversation with Julia. These dialogue choices introduce one of the core game mechanics that the player will use throughout the game. Julia develops early onset dementia and Henry, after Julia moves in with her family, copes by taking on a job as a fire lookout. He meets Delilah over a walkie-talkie, who is a secondary character that Henry/the player will interact with over the course of the game. It starts out as just learning the ropes of the job, but soon Henry and Delilah have to work together to solve a mystery after Henry is knocked out by someone and the radio calls between the two are intercepted. 
The narrative progression of the story is linear and follows the same storyline with different choices in dialogue. The course of events remains the same throughout every gameplay and you reach the ending in the same way, but the player can choose how to interact with Delilah which can change the overall experience of the game. The main setting of the game is based on the state of Wyoming in the Shoshone National Park where Henry took the fire lookout job. There is a map that shows the layout of the park. More specifically, the area of the park that Henry’s lookout called “Two Forks Lookout” was based. The game implies the park is even bigger through conversations with Delilah who has her own lookout and communicates with other fire lookouts who work at the same park. The player learns more about the setting through exploration. There are also cache boxes that players can interact with that will allow the player to make updates to their map which is written information about certain quests/tasks and details about specific locations. 
As mentioned above, there are a few characters involved in the game: Henry, Delilah, and Julia. Henry is the main character you play, which makes him the most important character in the story. Delilah falls in second in importance because you spend most of the game developing a relationship (can be romantic, friendly, or even rude) with her via walkie-talkie communication. Julia sets up the backstory for Henry’s main purpose of becoming a fire lookout. There are also two other characters who are important to the mystery aspect of the story: Ned Goodwin (father) and Brian Goodwin (son). Ned was a fire lookout who brought his son along without reporting him. They went caving together and Brian fell to his death, leading Ned to hide in the park. Henry discovers Ned on day one and Ned does everything in his power to scare Henry away until he is ultimately found out and goes into hiding yet again. Ned was the one responsible for knocking out Henry and intercepting the conversations between him and Delilah. I would say I held some feelings for every character, but felt more towards Brian since he was just a kid when he died and he was never reported dead, so his body had been sitting in the cave the entire time from his death. 
I believe that this game is playing on the idea of moving on in life and the act of forgetting. That the past can haunt and catch up with you. Both Delilah and Henry were running away from their struggles, Delilah with Brain leaving (at the time she didn’t know of his death until the ending) and with alcoholism and Henry with his wife and her worsening dementia. The game gives Henry the option to be flirty and develop feelings for Delilah and, at one point in the game, gives Henry the option to put on or leave his wedding ring in the lookout tower. As long as the player can navigate maps, you don’t have to know too much about the world to complete the game. I feel the background of Henry and Julia’s relationship, however, is important to understanding the story. If we didn’t have the introduction to the game with Henry’s past with Julia, we wouldn’t understand why he chose to work as a fire lookout. You can learn more about the story and setting by interacting with things in the environment. There are notes everywhere that give more context to the game. Some cache boxes in the game are completely up the the player to unlock and look through. 
The narrative of this game would be completely different in a movie. We would most likely get more screen time with Henry and Julia and watch their relationship grow together instead of a bunch of time skips. There would also be the chance to see what Delilah looks like, and her face remains a mystery in the game. The game gives the player tasks to complete as well as the mystery of who was tapping into the frequency Delilah and Henry were communicating. Another way the game keeps its audience engaged is the hope of meeting Delilah in person after two months of daily conversations. 
	Overall, I had a very good experience playing the game in total. I was hoping to see Delilah in person and have her and Henry experience a relationship of sorts together, whether it would have been romantic or platonic. Unfortunately, the discovery of Brian’s death really shook Delilah and understandably she didn’t want to meet or continue a relationship with Henry because he would forever be linked to the discovery of Brian’s dead body. I was torn between Julia and Delilah because Henry and Delilah had so much chemistry together and from personal experience I know it can be tough dealing with someone who you love going through the stages of dementia. Especially when it gets so bad to the point they don’t remember you at all. Another feature of the game I forgot to mention is a camera that belonged to Brain with a certain amount of images left that you can take. When the end credits roll, the photos from the camera are displayed in order, starting with the photos that Brain took shortly before his death. Those photos really tugged at the heartstrings after learning the truth of what happened. I would recommend this to anyone who hasn’t played because I find the storyline engaging and enjoyable.
